update SPM doc for SQL plan auto capture (#7975)
pingcap/docs: sql-plan-management.md

This statement binds SQL execution plans at the GLOBAL or SESSION level. Currently, supported bindable SQL statements (BindableStmt) in TiDB include `SELECT`, `DELETE`, `UPDATE`, and `INSERT` / `REPLACE` with `SELECT` subqueries.

> **Note:**
>

> > Bindings have higher priority over hints added manually. Therefore, when you execute a statement containing a hint while a binding is present, the hint controlling the behavior of the optimizer does not take effect. However, other types of hints are still effective.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Bindings have higher priority over manually added hints. Therefore, when you execute a statement containing a hint while a binding is present, the hint controlling the behavior of the optimizer does not take effect. However, other types of hints are still effective.
```
不太确定一不一样，如果一样的话，忽略这个 Comment

| original_sql  |  Original SQL statement after parameterization |
| bind_sql | Bound SQL statement with hints |
| default_db | Default database |
| status | Status including Enabled (available, replacing Using from v6.0), Disabled (unavailable), Deleted, Invalid, Rejected, and Pending verification|
| create_time | Creating time |
| update_time | Updating time |
| charset | Character set |
| collation | Ordering rule |
| source | The way in which a binding is created, including `manual` (created by the `create [global] binding` SQL statement), `capture` (captured automatically by TiDB), and `evolve` (evolved automatically by TiDB) |

### Troubleshoot a binding

> You can use either of the following methods to troubleshoot bindings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use either of the following methods to troubleshoot a binding:
```

    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

- Use the `explain format = 'verbose'` statement to view the query plan of a SQL statement. If the SQL statement uses a binding, you can run `show warnings` to check which binding is used in the SQL statement.

    ```sql
    -- Create a global binding

    CREATE GLOBAL BINDING for
        SELECT * FROM t
    USING
        SELECT /*+ USE_INDEX(t, idx_a) */ * FROM t;

    -- Use explain format = 'verbose' to view the execution plan of a SQL statement

    explain format = 'verbose' SELECT * FROM t;

    -- Run `show warnings` to view the binding used in the query.

    show warnings;
    ```

    ```sql
    +-------+------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | Level | Code | Message                                                                  |
    +-------+------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | Note  | 1105 | Using the bindSQL: SELECT /*+ USE_INDEX(`t` `idx_a`)*/ * FROM `test`.`t` |
    +-------+------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    1 row in set (0.01 sec)

    ```

### Cache bindings

> Each TiDB instance has a least recently used (LRU) cache for bindings. The cache capacity is controlled by the system variable [`tidb_mem_quota_binding_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_mem_quota_binding_cache-new-in-v60). You can view bindings that are cached in the TiDB instance.

Author: ```suggestion
Each TiDB instance has a least recently used (LRU) cache for bindings. The cache capacity is controlled by the system variable [`tidb_mem_quota_binding_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_mem_quota_binding_cache-new-in-v600). You can view bindings that are cached in the TiDB instance.
```

- `EXPLAIN` and `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` statements.
- SQL statements executed internally in TiDB, such as `SELECT` queries used for automatically loading statistical information.
- Statements that contain `Enabled` or `Disabled` bindings.
- Statements that meet capturing conditions.

> **Note:**
>

> > Existing bindings are fixed by generating a group of hints. In this way, execution plans generated by query statements do not change. For most OLTP queries, including queries using the same index or Join mode (such as HashJoin and IndexJoin), TiDB guarantees plan consistency before and after binding. However, due to limitations of hints, TiDB cannot guarantee plan consistency for some complex queries, such as Join of more than two tables, MPP queries, and complex OLAP queries.

Reviewer: 第一句话应该是类似于 `Current binding fixes the plan by generating a group of hints`

Reviewer: 第二句话 `execution plans generated by query statements do not change by using bindings` 可能会好一些

Reviewer: ·Join mode· -> `Join algorithm (method)`

> > Existing bindings are fixed by generating a group of hints. In this way, execution plans generated by query statements do not change. For most OLTP queries, including queries using the same index or Join mode (such as HashJoin and IndexJoin), TiDB guarantees plan consistency before and after binding. However, due to limitations of hints, TiDB cannot guarantee plan consistency for some complex queries, such as Join of more than two tables, MPP queries, and complex OLAP queries.

Author: ```suggestion
> Currently, a binding generates a group of hints to fix an execution plan generated by a query statement. In this way, the execution plan does not change. For most OLTP queries, including queries using the same index or Join mode (such as HashJoin and IndexJoin), TiDB guarantees plan consistency before and after the binding. However, due to the limitations of hints, TiDB cannot guarantee plan consistency for some complex queries, such as Join of more than two tables, MPP queries, and complex OLAP queries.
```

### Filter out bindings

This function allows you to configure a blocklist to filter out queries that meet the requirements. A blocklist has three dimensions, table name, frequency, and user name.

#### Usage

Insert filtering conditions into the system table `mysql.capture_plan_baselines_blacklist`. Then the filtering conditions take effect in the entire cluster immediately.

```sql
-- Filter by table name
 INSERT INTO mysql.capture_plan_baselines_blacklist(filter_type, filter_value) VALUES('table', 'test.t');

-- Filter by database name and table name through wildcards
 INSERT INTO mysql.capture_plan_baselines_blacklist(filter_type, filter_value) VALUES('table', 'test.table_*');
 INSERT INTO mysql.capture_plan_baselines_blacklist(filter_type, filter_value) VALUES('table', 'db_*.table_*');

-- Filter by frequency
 INSERT INTO mysql.capture_plan_baselines_blacklist(filter_type, filter_value) VALUES('frequency', '2');

-- Filter by user name
 INSERT INTO mysql.capture_plan_baselines_blacklist(filter_type, filter_value) VALUES('user', 'user1');
```

> | ** Dimension** | ** Dimension name** | ** Description**                                                     | Remarks                                                     |

Author: ```suggestion
| **Dimension** | **Dimension name** | **Description**                                                     | Remarks                                                     |
```

> | ** Dimension ** | ** Dimension name ** | ** Description **                                                     | Remarks                                                     |

Author: ```suggestion
| ** Dimension** | ** Dimension name** | ** Description**                                                     | Remarks                                                     |
```

| :----------- | :----------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| table        | Filter by table name. Each filtering rule is in the `db.table` format. The supported filtering syntax includes [Plain table names](/table-filter.md#plain-table-names) and [Wildcards](/table-filter.md#wildcards). | Case insensitive. If a table name contains illegal characters, the log returns a warning message `[sql-bind] failed to load mysql.capture_plan_baselines_blacklist`. |

> | frequency    | Filter by frequency. SQL statements executed more than once are captured by default. You can set a high frequency to capture statements more frequently. | Setting frequency to a value smaller than 1 is considered illegal, and the log returns a warning message `[sql-bind] frequency threshold is less than 1, ignore it`. If multiple frequency filter rules are inserted, the value with the highest frequency prevails. |

Author: ```suggestion
| frequency    | Filter by frequency. SQL statements executed more than once are captured by default. You can set a high frequency to capture statements that are frequently executed. | Setting frequency to a value smaller than 1 is considered illegal, and the log returns a warning message `[sql-bind] frequency threshold is less than 1, ignore it`. If multiple frequency filter rules are inserted, the value with the highest frequency prevails. |
```

> | frequency    | Filter by frequency. SQL statements executed more than once are captured by default. You can set a high frequency to capture statements more frequently. | Setting frequency to a value smaller than 1 is considered illegal, and the log returns a warning message `[sql-bind] frequency threshold is less than 1, ignore it`. If multiple frequency filter rules are inserted, the value with the highest frequency prevails. |

Reviewer: 这里应该是捕获次数多的，过滤捕获次数少的。

> | user         | Filter by user name. Statements executed by blocklisted users are not captured.                           | If multiple users execute the same statement, this statement is not captured only if the user names are all in the blocklist. |

Author: ```suggestion
| user         | Filter by user name. Statements executed by blocklisted users are not captured.                           | If multiple users execute the same statement and their user names are all in the blocklist, this statement is captured. |
```

> | user         | Filter by user name. Statements executed by blocklisted users are not captured.                           | If multiple users execute the same statement and their user names are all in the blocklist, this statement is captured. |

Author: ```suggestion
| user         | Filter by user name. Statements executed by blocklisted users are not captured.                           | If multiple users execute the same statement and their user names are all in the blocklist, this statement is not captured. |
```

> | user         | Filter by user name. Statements executed by blocklisted users are not captured.                           | If multiple users execute the same statement, this statement is not captured only if the user names are all in the blocklist. |

Author: > There are two "if" in this sentence. Perhaps, we could rewrite it. If multiple users execute the same statement, this statement is not captured only if the user names are all in the blocklist.

Fixed. PTAL

> **Note:**
>
> - Modifying a blocklist requires the super privilege.
>
> - If the blocklist contains illegal filter content, TiDB returns warning message `[sql-bind] unknown capture filter type, ignore it` in the log.

> ### Prevent rollback of execution plans during an upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prevent regression of execution plans during an upgrade
```

> When upgrading a TiDB cluster, you can use baseline capturing to prevent rollback of execution plans by performing the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When upgrading a TiDB cluster, you can use baseline capturing to prevent regression of execution plans by performing the following steps:
```

1. Enable baseline capturing and keep it working for a period of time.

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > Test data shows that long-term working of baseline capturing does not affect performance of the cluster load. Therefore, it is recommended to enable baseline capturing as long as possible so that important plans are captured.

Author: ```suggestion
    > Test data shows that long-term working of baseline capturing does not affect performance of the cluster load. Therefore, it is recommended to enable baseline capturing as long as possible so that important plans (appear twice or above) are captured.
```

>     > Test data shows that long-term working of baseline capturing does not affect performance of the cluster load. Therefore, it is recommended to enable baseline capturing as long as possible so that important plans (appear twice or above) are captured.

Author: ```suggestion
    > Test data shows that long-term working of baseline capturing has a slight impact on the performance of the cluster load. Therefore, it is recommended to enable baseline capturing as long as possible so that important plans (appear twice or above) are captured.
```

>     > Test data shows that long-term working of baseline capturing does not affect performance of the cluster load. Therefore, it is recommended to enable baseline capturing as long as possible.

Reviewer: 是不是少了半句话 “以确保重要的查询都能被捕获到。”

2. Upgrade the TiDB cluster. After the upgrade, captured bindings work to ensure plan consistency.

3. After the upgrade, delete bindings as required.

>     - Check the binding source by running the [`SHOW GLOBAL BINDINGS`](#view-binding) statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Check the binding source by running the [`SHOW GLOBAL BINDINGS`](#view-bindings) statement.
```

>     - Check the binding source by running the [`SHOW BINDINGS`](#view-binding) statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Check the binding source by running the [`SHOW GLOBAL BINDINGS`](#view-binding) statement.
```
这个部分是中文原文漏了，后续补上。

>         Based on the `Source` field in the output, decide whether the bindings are captured ( `capture`) or manually created (`manual`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Based on the `Source` field in the output, decide whether the bindings are captured (`capture`) or manually created (`manual`).
```

>         Based on the `Source` field in the output, decide whether the bindings are captured (`capture`) or manually created (`manual`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        In the output, check the `Source` field to see whether a binding is captured (`capture`) or manually created (`manual`).
```

    - Determine whether to retain the captured bindings:

        ```
        -- View the plan with the binding enabled
        SET @@SESSION.TIDB_USE_PLAN_BASELINES = true;
        EXPLAIN FORMAT='VERBOSE' SELECT * FROM t1 WHERE ...;

        -- View the plan with the binding disabled
        SET @@SESSION.TIDB_USE_PLAN_BASELINES = false;
        EXPLAIN FORMAT='VERBOSE' SELECT * FROM t1 WHERE ...;
        ```

        - If the execution plan is consistent, you can delete the binding safely.

>         - If the execution plan is inconsistent, you need to identify the cause, for examaple, checking operations on statistical information. In this case, you need retain the binding to ensure plan consistency.

Author: ```suggestion
        - If the execution plan is inconsistent, you need to identify the cause, for examaple, checking operations on statistical information. In this case, you need to retain the binding to ensure plan consistency.
```

>         - If the execution plan is inconsistent, you need to identify the cause, for examaple, checking operations on statistical information. In this case, you need retain the binding to ensure plan

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - If the execution plan is inconsistent, you need to identify the cause, for examaple, checking operations on statistical information. In this case, you need retain the binding to ensure plan consistency.
```

>         - If the execution plan is inconsistent, you need to identify the cause, for examaple, checking operations on statistical information. In this case, you need to retain the binding to ensure plan consistency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - If the execution plan is inconsistent, you need to identify the cause, for example, by checking statistics. In this case, you need to retain the binding to ensure plan consistency.
```
